I would say that the conversation about
what to teach kids
and at what age is larger than just sex
either I I don't know why we're teaching
climate change fear to small children
age-appropriateness is such a big part
of all of this and the left really wants
to remove the boundaries of
age-appropriateness and you could see
this with the drag queen shows it
started with drag queen Story Hour where
a drag queen would read a book to kids
where's the last time we saw a book in
any of these events now it's twerking
and and dancing this really
inappropriate behavior becomes something
that you must not only accept you must
also support and a lot of what we go
through in the book as well is how the
spectacle of leftism is such a big part
of it it's not just that you need to
believe certain things you need to
demonstrate that you believe them you
can't just think black lives matter you
need to put the sign in your window and
so all of this is very again Soviet
totalitarian authoritarian and it's
coming here and it's aimed at our kids
[Music]
thank you
hello everyone
today I'm speaking with Carol Markowitz
writer of the new book stolen youth
and a columnist at the New York Post
we discussed the ideological capture not
just of our school systems but of our
children
from the pornographic books being
peddled into libraries to the
authoritarian doctrines letting Bad
Teachers preach keeping good teachers
silent this interview is vital for
parents worried about the state of the
K-12 Public School System sir Carol you
have a book
stolen Youth and that's being published
by daily wire
by the daily wire crew and so
is that out and if not when is it out
and then even more importantly what is
it about
it is out it came out March 15th
and it's about the way the woke are
targeting our children for
indoctrination and what parents can do
about it
all right so let me ask you a specific
question about that
I've been trying to think this through
watching the American public school
system implode so I want to walk a
hypothesis by you and maybe then you can
tell me what you think of it in light of
what you've been researching
so our whole society decided
a couple of decades ago
to include gay relationships under the
broader umbrella of
socially acceptable and or desirable
relationships
I was the gay marriage issue and that
started out as a progressive movement
but eventually
the classic liberals and the
conservatives came on board
and
we made a societal decision to expand
the definition of
conjugal Union let's say if not on the
religious front at least on the state
front and often on the religious front
now that that produces a thorny problem
you might say
because what you've done then as a
society is
to sacralize
same-sex sexual activity
now that brings up the next problem
which is well once you've decided that
there's no moral or qualitative
distinction between
homosexual sex and heterosexual sex
and you've already decided that you're
also going to educate your children
on the sex front
then you have to solve the problem of
exactly what you teach children about
sex and you might say the default would
be well you spend half the time teaching
them about heterosexual
processes let's say and you spend half
the time teaching them about homosexual
practices because
since there's no distinction in value
there's no reason to draw
a boundary and then that makes the then
the problem gets even worse after that
because
if the default rule of thumb now is
every proclivity has an equal
opportunity to be put forward on the
educational front
you have to face the problem of well
what if all the books that your children
are reading feature only heterosexual
couples do you now have to transform the
entire Canon of children's literature so
that all other forms of sexual encounter
get equal air time
the content I've created over the past
year represents some of my best to date
as I've undertaken additional extensive
exploration in today's most challenging
topics and experienced a nice increment
in production quality courtesy of daily
wire plus we all want you to benefit
from the knowledge gained throughout
this adventurous Journey I'm pleased to
let you know that for a limited time
you're invited to access all my content
with a seven day free trial at dailywire
plus this will provide you with full
access to my new In-Depth series on
marriage as well as guidance for
creating a Life vision and my series
exploring the book of Exodus you'll also
find there the complete library of all
my podcasts and lectures I have a
plethora of new content in development
that will be coming soon exclusively on
daily wire plus voices of reason and
resistance are few and far between these
strange days click on the link below if
you want to learn more and thank you for
watching and listening
thank you
[Music]
and it seems to me number one that the
answer to that is we don't know how to
do that
number two we're trying to
give every proclivity equal air time and
number three that's destroying the
public education system
so
what do you think of that what what's
your take on the situation why are we in
this peculiar position
so it's interesting because one of the
things that we cover in the book is how
children's books have gotten so
inappropriate in so many different ways
and I think a lot of the time these
books are allowed into the classroom or
into the children's libraries because
they're specifically LGBT a lot of the
pornographic books for example that Ron
DeSantis in Florida my Governor is
trying to pull out of Elementary School
libraries are pornography books but
they're specifically gay pornography and
they use that as cover to say if you
don't like these pornographic books in
your Elementary School library then
perhaps you're anti-gay perhaps you're
homophobic and so they use this all as
an excuse to kind of get these things in
front of children it's a wider issue of
much younger sexualization and
just pitching ideas to kids that are
completely inappropriate
but they wouldn't allow this kind of
thing to go on if it were straight sex
they wouldn't let a pornographic book
with straight couples into libraries
they wouldn't let let's say a stripper
grind and dance in front of children but
drag queens are okay and if you
challenge that then you're you're the
problem
so two things come out of that like who
do you think is the they in question
exactly it's a wide day
it's um we try to answer this question
in the book because this is a really
good question it's not some vague they
and in fact a lot of it is I don't like
the idea of saying it's an ideology that
targets children no it's people that
Target children with their ideology
a lot of it does come at the top so you
have like teachers unions teachers
accredation societies all of that is has
been captured by the ideologically woke
and so this is being spread throughout
the US and I'm sure elsewhere
um really from the top and there if you
look at like Library associations and I
know that that sounds crazy before we
started researching this book I would
have thought oh this is a conspiracy
uh Theory why would the libraries want
to push this kind of thing but they do
and they have like these annual meetings
where they decide what kind of books are
going to be in our libraries and they
specifically say things like it's okay
to not tell the parents what the kids
are taking out of the library that's
crazy Karen should be the last line of
defense for their kids but they can't be
if they don't know what's going on
so your sense is that that there are
well targeted groups of activists
fundamentally who are pushing this
agenda
um that brings up two additional
questions I suppose one is why would
they do that and the second is
what exactly constitutes pornographic
content and I know that's a particularly
thorny question let's talk about why
first of all like my sense of this
looking at it historically
because there have been pushes for let's
say liberalization of childhood sexual
behavior that have been mounted for
decades now there was a famous petition
signed back in the early 70s by a whole
Coterie of French intellectuals aiming
at radically lowering the age of consent
making the claim that children were
perfectly capable of consenting to
essentially is to sexual relationships
now you might ask why adults would be
interested in doing that and I suppose
the positive side is that they're trying
to free children from unnecessary
constraints by tyrannical adults but the
darker end of that is something more
like
the entire
movement
to promote
sexual freedom is grounded in a very
narrow Hedonism and I would say it's
narrow because
narrow means willing to sacrifice
everything to the pleasures of the
moment
now you know there is a psychological
literature on the personality
attributes of people who engage in
short-term mating strategies so that
would be casual sex mating strategies
and
the Tilt towards casual mating
strategies rather than long-term
relationships let's say committed
relationships is associated with what's
been called the dark tetrad
group of personality traits and that's
narcissistic
manipulative or Machiavellian
Psychopathic that's parasitic and
predatory and because that wasn't enough
sadistic
and so what you have is a group of
people and arguably there is a small
minority of people who are extremely
oriented towards maximizing short-term
pleasure their own short-term pleasure
and perfectly willing to sacrifice
everything to that and also perfectly
capable to demonize and Destroy
reputations in that Pursuit
and they attempt I think what's
happening is that they're attempting in
every desperate way possible to ensure
that their hedonism
moves forward in an untrammeled manner
but also that they can make a moral
claim that any objection to their
hedonistic behavior is nothing but
Prejudice right which is the radical
leftists are extremely good at
maneuvering and manipulating on that
front so that seems to be associated
with the why in in your investigations
you talk about the they that are pushing
this agenda for example in library
groups and among teacher groups and so
forth what's your sense of the
underlying motivation
I think it's a cultural revolution and I
think we've seen it before in so many
countries we opened the book with a
history chapter
I was born in the Soviet Union I came to
the us as a small child and these so
many things that I heard throughout my
life I feel like are happening right now
in our country and I don't know that
you know I ever felt like this before
throughout my life people have said oh
doesn't this feel Soviet to you like the
1990s the early 2000s like isn't this
Soviet feeling and I would always say no
but now I see it I see that we're moving
in the direction of an authoritarian
system where neighbors inform on each
other and people are afraid to speak and
so much of this to me began undercovered
but has really accelerated they've
managed to force this cultural
revolution on all of us and they're
starting with the kids just like all the
revolutions before them and the only
difference is that in places like the US
you know it's happening my Soviet
ancestors could probably say that they
didn't know what was happening they
didn't have the internet they didn't
have much news and in other countries
too in China and Cambodia
um these places could say that we didn't
know we didn't know what the leaders
were doing we didn't know what people in
charge were doing I don't think people
in America can say that and for us part
of the reason of writing this book is to
make sure that they can't say that so
the
the overt sexualization of children let
me let me add another wrinkle to this
just to make things further complicated
a long while back five years ago I
interviewed Milo yiannopoulos
and Milo was quite an interesting person
extraordinarily extroverted
dramatic
charismatic he made quite a splash on
University campuses for a couple of
years as as a right-wing provocateur you
might say but coming from the LGBT side
of the community Spectrum
and I talked to him a little bit about
his early sexual experiences
he was inducted you might say into
homosexual activity when he was about 14
something like that at the hands as it
turned out of someone who is a member of
religious community
who was about 29 or so
and uh
he said that that was consensual and
that it was welcome on his part and also
that he was capable of making that
decision even though he was 14. that was
his retrospective memory but
I had my doubts about that when I talked
to him listening as a clinician first of
all because I don't care how smart you
are when you're 14 you're still only 14.
and
just because you thought you were
competent
at that point to make decisions like
that doesn't mean that that was an
accurate memory to carry forward let's
say into your adult years
and Milo didn't seem to Harbor any
malice or resentment towards the person
who he had been involved with but later
on his star plummeted let's say and
things got pretty twisted and bent For
Milo he ended up converting to a rather
radical form of Christian evangelism and
issuing his
homosexual lifestyle and
I'm not saying that he saw the light or
anything like that I'm saying that all
of that was evidence of an
extraordinarily deep-seated existential
confusion but one of the things Milo did
say and this is a very thorny issue was
that that practice of having young gay
men inducted into active homosexual
activity by older men is an extremely
common part of the subculture
now nobody talks about that outside of
the subculture let's say and part of the
reason for that is that if you even
bring it up I understand that this is
also common in organizations like well
there isn't any evidence that I know of
that shows that the rate of child abuse
among Roman Catholic clergy is any
higher than it is among other groups of
people that have access to Children
let's say but I have heard through the
grapevine and and as a consequence of my
investigations that this practice of
older men inducting younger men into
active homosexual practice is
what would you say it's a subcultural
given
and so that complicates the situation
very much as well you know there's a
proclivity among the gay male Community
to
be attracted to youth now it's not
different really different than
heterosexual male attraction to
heterosexual female because there's a
proclivity for men to like younger women
and this is an extension of that but it
certainly makes the discussion of all of
this much more complicated especially
when you're also talking about the
motives I think part of the question
we're dealing with is
you know is it possible to develop a
society that manifests tolerance of or
even depreciation for
committed homosexual relationships that
doesn't run aground on the problem of
what to teach children about sex so I
would say that first of all everything
that Milo says should be taken with a
grain of salt
um I think that when he said that it's
one of the many controversial splashy
things that he says to get into our news
which I've met him he is very personable
he's very magnetic I get it
um but you know I I think that there was
a
level of disgust when he said that and
also a pushback from a lot of gay people
and not just on the left the idea that
they're predators and obviously I I
think that that's something that they uh
argued very strongly against
so Milo isn't the best to me example but
your question is right how do we protect
children in any case
um from anyone and I think that a lot of
what we address in the book is that you
have to have sort of open conversations
with your kids about what happens out in
the world and how to protect them is to
lay a foundation at home and to make
sure that there is this open line of
communication I think a lot of the work
that you do for example is to help
adults be resilient well what if we
didn't mess up kids in the first place
what if we didn't have to have
unresilient adults that needed fixing or
help what if we treated childhood as a
time to teach them how to be in the
world instead of to indoctrinate them
with far left ideas in their schools and
libraries and doctor's office and media
companies and every other Avenue
president Trump recently issued a
warning from his Mar-A-Lago home quote
our currency is crashing and will soon
no longer be the world's standard which
will be our greatest defeat frankly in
200 years there are three reasons why
the central banks are dumping the US
dollar inflation deficit spending and
our insurmountable national debt the
fact is there is one asset that has
withstood famine Wars and political and
economic upheaval dating back to
Biblical times gold and you can own it
in a tax sheltered retirement account
with the help of Birch gold that's right
Birch gold will help you convert an
existing Ira or 401K maybe from a
previous employer into an IRA in Gold
the best part you don't pay a penny out
of pocket just text Jordan to 989898 for
your free info kit they'll hold your
hand through the whole process think
about this when currencies fail gold is
a safe haven how much more time does the
Dollar have to protect your savings with
gold Birch gold has an A plus rating
with the Better Business Bureau and
thousands of happy customers text Jordan
to 989898 and get your free info kit on
gold again text Jordan to 989898
foreign
what do you think
where do you think the line is crossed
in relationship to children's literature
let's say on the
sex education versus pornography front I
mean it's famously difficult to Define
pornography I think there is a famous
Supreme Court decision at one point
where the Justice involved in in
deciding whether uh a particular I
believe it was magazine
um transgressed against Community
standards he said something
approximating I can't Define pornography
but I know it when I see it
and that's not a completely unreasonable
answer because there are lots of things
we know when we see that we can't Define
or make explicit but when push comes to
shove which is what's happening in the
schools right now
it's no easy matter to clearly Define
the line between what constitutes
pornography and what constitutes open
and Frank discussion about sexuality
and of course what's happening in
Florida is that the more radical types
the more Progressive types and also by
the way some people who are concerned
with censorship is that
the attempt to regulate what's being
shown to Children is can easily
degenerate into a form of heavy-handed
State censorship and so for you
personally you've been researching this
book for a long time thinking about
these matters
I mean do you regard yourself like are
you are you a conservative on the sexual
morality front is that embedded in your
own
what would you say your own concerns
about
Purity and propriety and how do you
think that
we can draw a line between what
constitutes appropriate sexually
informative material
and what constitutes pornography these
books that you've been objecting to that
DeSantis has been objecting to what line
is it that they're Crossing as far as
you're concerned yeah
so DeSantis has been asked this and he
held a press conference and he said I'm
going to show you the books and the News
agencies had to pull away from his press
conference because they couldn't show
what was in the books on the news I
think that's a fairly good standard if
you can't show it on the news to adults
then you can't show it to my
kindergartner and that's not a crazy
thing to say I I'm generally very
permissive about you know written
material not to kids I don't think it
should be
um immediately because something's okay
to be published means that it should be
acceptable for children it's not not
everything is made for kids and I don't
just mean books a lot of things in the
world are not appropriate for children
and so in these books it's not simply
sex acts
um there's things like sexting in the
books again this is in the library uh
for elementary school so until fifth
grade which in the U.S is like 11 12
years old 11. um and so these books are
accessible to really small children and
it's drawing so it looks almost cartoony
um and Librarians suggested to kids uh
there's graphic sex acts there's I don't
know how much I'm allowed to say here
but you know there's oral sex
say exactly what you have to say there's
language like [__] so to speak you
know [__] butt plugs
Etc in these books that are available to
small children now should they be
available to high school children to you
know teenagers even that I'm ifeon why
should it be available in their school
library which is smaller children I
don't even think it's a question I don't
understand why we're you know having
this debate because it's so clear that
if we can't read it on the news we
shouldn't have it in their library right
so that's a practical demonstration of
the violation of community standards
well okay this brings up another issue
so
you might say that there's a certain
minimum
degree of sex education that should be
provided as part of the public education
system and that children who are
properly educated in sexual matters for
example might be less likely to end up
pregnant as teenagers now I would say
the empirical evidence for the utility
of sexual education in public schools as
a preventative measure for teenage
pregnancy is damn dismal there's no real
evidence that providing just the facts
ma'am so to speak two kids had any
effect whatsoever on
the remediation of childhood teenage
pregnancy let's say
and I would also say that
kids can get so much information about
sex on the net
now not that that's a particularly good
way of going about it but it's certainly
available that the additional value of
having teachers teach sexual education
seems debatable at best but then you
could perhaps say that there's a place
in the schools for
discussion of the biology of
reproduction maybe in a biology class
because obviously reproduction is a
major element of biology but then that
brings up another thorny issue which is
is it possible or
desirable
to offer value free sex education you
know or is that a contradiction in terms
because if you describe the process
merely in terms of its mechanics
you're making the case implicitly that
what would you say that sex can be
viewed purely through the lens of
objectivity
and it isn't obvious at all that that's
the case like it seems to me and this is
my socially conservative Prejudice you
might say that it's actually unethical
to teach kids about sex outside the
context of simultaneously teaching them
about the necessity of long-term
committed loving mutually reciprocal
relationships right marriages for all
intents and purposes and that if you
divorce one from the other you're
already halfway down the slippery slope
to the kind of prediction that we're
facing now
well and then you might say well the
simplest Solution on that front would
just be to pull the schools out of the
sex education business altogether
so what do you what do you think about
that and you've been talking to
political figures you're somewhat
involved with the DeSantis people like
what's the solution from the
conservative side to this conundrum
well there I think is a range of
solutions so one thing I would say is a
number of years ago there was this show
called Teen Mom on MTV and there was a
study that showed that this show
actually did more to reduce teen
pregnancies than all of these sex
education classes because they show they
saw
what it was like for a teenager to be a
mother and they thought God I don't want
this and so you know for all the
conversations and sex education class
about how not to get pregnant or why not
to get pregnant uh you know the image of
it really did
solidify for kids I don't want this
the other thing I would say is that the
biology classes are running into a
different problem at this point because
we can't be honest about a lot of
biology we have a chapter in the book on
transgenderism how do they address
transgenderism in biology or sex
education classes they don't address it
with any facts it's all very feelings
based and and what people think and feel
as opposed to what things actually are
um so I would love to see a straight
discussion in Biology class about the
way the human body works but we're
moving further and further away from
that and it's being filled in with a
bunch of woke nonsense that our kids
aren't going to be able to process at
the age that they're at
um and carry forward and into being
these resilient you know capable adults
I would say that the conversation about
what to teach kids
and at what age is larger than just sex
either I I don't know why we're teaching
climate change fear to small children
there's a lot of evidence that anxiety
among teenagers and young people is very
high because of stuff like this and why
what are these kids going to do to fight
climate change what are they going to do
other than lay in their bed at night and
be afraid that the world is going to end
so for us and what we say a lot in
stolen news is that age-appropriateness
is such a big part of all of this and
the left really wants to remove the
boundaries of age-appropriateness and
you could see this with the drag queen
shows it started with drag queen Story
Hour where a drag queen would read a
book to kids
where's the last time we saw a book in
any of these events now it's twerking
and and dancing and they would never
stand for it if it were a straight woman
stripping and doing the same thing but
because it's again they've used the LGBT
Shield
um this really inappropriate behavior
becomes something that you must not only
accept you must also support and a lot
of what we go through in the book as
well is how the spectacle of leftism is
such a big part of it it's not just that
you need to believe certain things you
need to demonstrate that you believe
them you can't just think black lives
matter which is a you know idea as
controversial as the Earth is round you
need to put the sign in your window and
so all of this is very again Soviet
totalitarian authoritarian and it's
coming here and it's aimed at our kids
are you aware that your browsing data is
constantly being tracked and monitored
have you ever stopped to think about who
has access to this information and what
they might be doing with it if you're
like most people you probably haven't
given this much thought but the truth is
your browsing data can reveal a lot
about you your interests habits location
and even your identity every time you
visit a website click on a link or make
a purchase online you're leaving a
digital trail that can be monetized by
advertisers and data Brokers they use
this information to Target you with ads
and promotions that are tailored
specifically to your browsing habits the
more data they have the more accurately
they can Target you that's why we trust
expressvpn expressvpn encrypts your
internet traffic and hides your browsing
data from prying eyes this makes it much
more difficult for anyone to intercept
your data or track your online activity
expressvpn is easy to use just fire up
the app and click one button plus it
works on all your devices your phone
laptop and even your Wi-Fi router with
lightning fast speeds unlimited
bandwidth and easy to use software
expressvpn is the perfect choice for
anyone looking to protect their online
privacy and security
stop letting strangers invade your
online privacy by visiting
expressvpn.com Jordan that's
e-x-p-r-e-s-s-vpn.com Jordan and get
three extra months free
expressvpn.com Jordan
[Music]
so
let me
make some suggestions about the
inadequacy of the conservative response
to all of this
so
30 years ago in the 1990s
I was
beginning investigations into predictors
of long-term success in life
and the basic measurable predictors are
General cognitive ability
and formally that's measured as IQ often
that's age corrected General cognitive
ability and trait conscientiousness at
least for many occupations and so those
are measurable and they're pretty good
predictors of long-term outcome and
while I was investigating all of that on
Purely for purely practical Reasons by
the way I was trying to figure out how
to help people select better employees
and how to select better students those
who had a better chance of succeeding
let's say I started investigating
alternative
theories of
human ability and that led me into
research that was being conducted
primarily at education schools Howard
Gardner Robert Sternberg those were big
names in those days Gardner invented the
theory of multiple intelligences and
Sternberg the proposition that there was
a kind of practical intelligence that
was different and could be what would
you call
promoted independent of General
cognitive ability and I looked into that
research in great detail and concluded
along with my colleagues that it was
absolute 100 percent nonsense and
rubbish that all that Gardner had done
with his theory of multiple
intelligences was repackage the idea of
talent and call it intelligence and that
all Sternberg had done was hand wave
about a form of cognitive ability that
he couldn't measure nor demonstrate but
it was politically
um what would you say welcome because it
challenged the idea that
General cognitive ability is a unitary
phenomena which it is by the way and uh
and that led me to take a look at what
education schools were doing in more
detail and what I learned and I
certainly have learned more of this as
the years have progressed that there
isn't any resource research done on the
social science front then the research
that's done in faculties of Education
they're responsible for more
pathological educational fads than any
other single academic source which is
really saying something because they
have to compete with Departments of
English and say fields of like faculties
of social work and all the what do they
call those grievance study disciplines
so you have to work pretty hard to be
the worst of that Bunch but the
faculties of Education have truly
managed it now and they're the people
who are training our teachers but it's
worse than that because
the students that enroll in faculties of
Education are not exactly the cream of
the crop generally speaking they're
often kids who haven't figured out who
go into education as a kind of default
because they don't know what else to do
they're not stringently selected for
their academic prowess and they're often
people who are interested in a rather
permanent career with a pretty decent
shot of holidays
and so we're not getting the cream of
the crop as students and we certainly
don't have the cream of the crop as
researchers in the faculties of
education however
the faculties of Education have a hammer
lock on teacher certification
and that means that they're the woke
Enterprise enters the general population
because of the faculties of Education
hammerlock control of teacher
certification and so my question is why
in the world are the Republicans Daft
enough and have been for like 50 years
to not only allow this insane Monopoly
to exist but to continue especially
given also that in many states in the
U.S there's actually a teacher shortage
and given also that there's no evidence
whatsoever that faculties of Education
have ever produced to show that their
attempts to train teachers actually make
teachers better
so you know we can complain about the
radical leftists pushing their idiot
agenda and there's no shortage of useful
complaining to do on that front but I
would say well if the bloody
conservatives are going to roll over
like dimwits and allow the Monopoly of
the leftists to continue on the teacher
certification front they get exactly we
get exactly what we deserve so
we're talking about ideology here and
we're talking about the sway of these
ideas and even the sway of these radical
individuals but the fundamental problem
technically is that there's a monopoly
on teacher certification that's been
granted to the faculties of education
and their woke nightmares so like how in
the world can the Republicans and the
conservatives in general be so blind if
I had a dollar for every time I wondered
how could Republicans be so daft I would
be a gazillionaire you're absolutely
right they're not doing anything I I
think in places like Florida I have a
lot of faith in Governor Ron DeSantis
but obviously there's only so much he
can do our family moved from New York to
Florida about a year ago because we saw
saner policies but you're right and so
much of what you're saying is right it's
not even just political stuff like a
discussion happening right now in
America is about the way that we've been
teaching children to read now I have
three kids 13 10 and 7. about a year and
a half ago I realized that my youngest
kid does not know how to read despite
everybody around him thinking that he
does and the thing was he had managed
because he's a smart kid he had managed
to memorize enough words to make it seem
like he knows how to read so I would
have these conversations with his
teachers and they would say Oh no you're
wrong he knows how to read he's really
smart and I'd say I know he's really
smart he's managed to convince you he
knows how to read and he doesn't because
the way that we've taught reading in
America for the last decade plus has
been memorized these words and somehow
that worked yeah my whole word reading
yeah it's not reading it's no sounding
out so my older two managed to still
read the right way but my younger one
took the lesson memorized all these
words a lot of words and went through
life pretending to read
now we're having the conversation of
like wow that was a really dumb thing to
do for a while in our schools but why
did it happen in the first place why are
we throwing random I can tell you I can
tell you why
I can tell you how that happened I
looked into that because that's one of
the
preposterously stupid theories put
forward by faculties of education so
here's how it happened
so if you analyze imagine that
you might start by thinking that
if you wanted to teach children how to
do something you'd look at how experts
do it
and teach them the way the experts do it
okay well that's not a bad Theory it's
not necessarily true because experts and
beginners might use different strategies
but as far as theories go it could be
stupider so let's start with that okay
so now let's analyze the behavior of
expert readers
foreign
well expert readers
read words at a glance they don't sound
them out
and not only that expert readers if
they're really expert can probably read
a whole phrase at a glance with one eye
movement
and so
and so the theory was well experts read
at the whole word level
so perhaps we should teach children to
do that now there's other evidence
supporting that idea so for example if I
showed you a paragraph made up of
English words
where each word had the first letter and
the last letter in the right place but
all the intermediary letters were
scrambled
you could still read that and almost as
fast
and so by the time you're an expert
reader you do recognize whole words as
units
and so the theory was well why don't we
just teach children to recognize whole
words
now the problem with that is well just
because that's how experts do it doesn't
mean that's how they learn to do it
so that's one problem and the second
problem is that basically converts
English into a form of Chinese
now
Chinese words exactly is that each
character becomes something like a like
an image instead of a sequence of
letters the whole point of the bloody
alphabet is to have an alphabetic
language and the whole point of that is
to allow for phonetic learning to break
down the sounds into their units to
allow children to piece together the
units and then to to memorize the words
now so what happens when you learn a
phonetic when you learn phonetically is
that you first of all master the 40
sounds or so that are associated with
the alphabet
then you learn how to chunk them into
say two letter three letter combinations
then you learn how to put them together
in words and as you do that you build up
the neural circuitry that enables you to
identify the words at a glance but you
do it from the bottom up well the idiot
research it just seems like we're
receiving kids
you know using a philosophy that we
haven't thought through I don't know
very much about education I'm not I
haven't thought it through at all but I
know that that was crazy
it was it was research that was shoddy
in the utter extreme and this isn't new
the whole word reading dispute goes back
at least 40 years and it's absolutely
100 percent self-evident in the
literature that if you take a school
system this happened in California that
used a phonetic approach to reading and
you transform that into a school system
that uses a whole word approach to
reading that you decimate the ability of
the education system to teach children
how to read and we've known that for 40
years
and the faculties of Education are still
debating whether or not this is true and
that's only one of the many unbelievably
foolish things they managed to do and
here's some more
they're The Originators of the
self-esteem movement
and because of their cockeyed version of
what constituted self-esteem they ended
up teaching children to be narcissistic
instead of to be confident and
narcissists pretend to be confident
that's how they and mimic it and when
you do explicit self-esteem training you
you train narcissism not confidence we
have social emotional learning we have
learning styles we have all these idiot
educational fads that and there's not an
iota of good research data suggesting
that they do anything but harm and
that's all
that can all be put at the foot of the
faculties of education but they're
entirely enabled by idiot Republicans
for example who aren't smart enough to
notice that they're losing the cultural
War because they've handed over the
entire educational Enterprise to social
justice Warriors and it doesn't take
that much thinking to figure that out
yeah I mean one of the other discoveries
that we made in researching stolen Youth
and again this is something that I would
have thought was a conspiracy theory
before we started writing this book but
in teachers colleges they use Marxist
books to teach the teachers so the
teachers themselves get indoctrinated
and then they spread out throughout the
country and they indoctrinate the kids
they don't even know what's happening
they don't know that they've learned
critical theory and that they're passing
it along to children they they think
that they've learned something good
um so I think a lot of this like I don't
know why Republicans don't spend all
their time talking about it I think the
reason I would have thought it was a
conspiracy theory is because how can it
be in America that the teachers colleges
are using Marxist books and they're
coming up with con Concepts like two
plus two is not always four and it's not
Front Page News every day it's not the
main thing that all of our politicians
talk about all the time how could that
be and that's really again part of the
reason that we needed this book to be
published is because we felt like
for a long time you could say I didn't
know I don't know these politicians can
say I don't know well again read our
book and there's no way to say I didn't
know yeah well you know I see this
happening in Canada there's a
conservative government in Ontario and
no and there's a conservative minister
of Education in Ontario and nonetheless
the school system there is as woke as
hell and what happens consistently is
that these bloody Marxist doctrines are
put forward under the rubric of
anti-racism let's say and idiot
politicians who don't do their homework
or who are afraid of being pilloried
see the word anti-racist and they think
because the leftists are very sneaky in
this regard they think oh well if it's
anti-racist we have to be for it and
they don't look at all to see what is
being transmitted what ideas are being
transmitted in the guise of this
so-called anti-racism and they are a
strange hybrid of post-modernism you
know and the postmodernists dispute the
existence of any uniting narratives
whatsoever and the marxists well I
suppose they Trump that by claiming that
there's nothing else but power and the
conservatives are so damn blind that
this goes on under their noses
constantly and they often facilitate its
movement forward and it's because
they're they're either ignorant that's
part of the problem or they're afraid on
the moral front and neither of those are
excusable especially when hypothetically
they're concerned about losing the
cultural War which they are definitely
losing well look at the abuse and
pushback that Governor DeSantis gets
even from other Republicans you know
people that are in the pub public eye
the the Chris Christie's of the world
and such they say things like he
DeSantis Sparks cultural Wars well
culture wars are really important
because a war for the culture matters
culture matters so yes we should be
fighting these wars I think so much of
what we talk about is
um dismissed by the left and we let them
dismiss it we let them say oh this
doesn't matter but it does matter and we
should be talking about it all the time
I think that the schools and the fight
for our schools is so important so
another thing the Republicans are doing
right now look I love the idea of school
choice which is you know supplying
vouchers to parents so that they could
pull their kids out of failing public
schools and go to parochial schools or
private schools but that's nowhere near
enough most people still send their kids
to the local public school so the idea
that Republicans have like oh I passed a
school voucher Bill I'm done is
ridiculous we have to fight for the
schools we have to fight for the
curriculums we have could fight for the
kids who go to those schools we can't
just give up on them and say like oh
we'll hand out vouchers that's just
simply not enough well if if all your
voucher choice is between one woke
school or another it's not helpful in
the least and well that's part of the
reason too why I think it's necessary to
go to the source of the problem and the
faculties of Education which I think
should just be abolished they're
certainly their Monopoly on teacher
certification should be revoked like
tomorrow and permanently because there's
no excuse for it whatsoever the other
thing that's so bloody idiotic about
this that it's almost a kind of Miracle
of stupidity is that if you look at the
teachers unions for example and you look
at where they donate all of their
monetary support I think it's 99 percent
Democrat
so what you have is this strange
spectacle where not only do the
Republicans hand over
children and the future to the woke mobs
via the vehicle of the faculties of
education but they actually
facilitate the development of these
immense organizations the teachers
unions and so forth that do nothing but
fundraise for their for their opponents
100 percent of the time
I mean it's no bloody wonder that the
conservatives are being rolled over you
know and and it's it's not even that the
leftists are what would you say pushing
the conservatives or circumventing the
conservatives the conservatives are so
damn blind that they help the leftists
do this
don't buy and I see this very very
clearly in Canada for example right I
think I saw this very clearly during the
pandemic where places like Maryland that
had a republican Governor nevertheless
had schools closed one of the longest in
the country because the Republican
governor was so cowered by the teachers
unions he didn't want to be criticized
as wanting teachers to die which is
again you know what Ron DeSantis was
getting what the governor of Texas was
getting he didn't want to have parade of
caskets outside of his office like
what's happening in places that were
trying to open schools and so you have
these weak Republicans who don't stand
up to their political enemies like
nobody is even saying you know
um fight the people on your own side
which is a lot of times necessary at
least fight the people that hate you and
such an easy kind of decision to make
but even they can't even do that
we'll be right back first we wanted to
give you a sneak peek at Jordan's new
documentary logos and literacy
I was very much struck by how the
translation of the biblical writings
jump started the development of literacy
across the entire world illiteracy was
the norm the pastor's home was the first
school and every morning it would begin
with singing the Christian faith is a
singing religion probably 80 percent of
scripture memorization today exists only
because of what is sung this is amazing
here we have a Gutenberg Bible printed
on the price of Johann gooper science
and religion are opposing forces in the
world but
technically that has not been the case
now the book is available to everyone
from Shakespeare to modern education and
medicine and science to to civilization
itself it is the most influential book
in all history and hopefully people can
walk away with at least a sense of that
so there's another issue here that's
interesting too so I've been playing
with this notion which I think is
true
in a very deep level which is that any
civic responsibility that you abdicate
will be taken up by tyrants and used
against you
and so what we see in Canada and I uh
the the local school boards have a fair
bit of sway over how the schools conduct
themselves
and many of the positions on the school
boards are elected
and it's those are low-level positions
and they're not well paid and they
require a fair bit of work and so
we could say let's say they don't
necessarily attract the best candidates
or we could even say they often attract
people who
for whom that Avenue to some power is
the only Avenue they have and who have
the same kind of pathology that idiot
radicals in universities who take over
the students unions have because they're
the same sort of people and resentful
and power mad and devious and neurotic
and narcissistic and so they end up on
the school boards but and we could say
well that's a terrible thing that the
school boards have been taken over by
the woke radicals but by the same token
the same people
so let's say the Centrist conservative
and liberal types they're not
putting their
names forward to occupy these
low-level political positions it's the
same within political parties you know
the the woke mob can't take over the
political landscape unless normal sane
people abdicate their responsibility and
that certainly happened so in your book
for example
you talk about what parents
can and should do and one of the things
they can and should do is get involved
with their child's education in some in
some manner well so what sort of things
do you see as low-hanging fruit on the
parental front
well in the U.S in the last three years
that what you're describing has been
changing uh for a long time it was only
people on the left running for school
boards and so the majority of the school
boards throughout the country were run
by committed leftists and what happened
in the last three years and kovitz
sparked so much of this it was covid
plus the George Floyd riots
um those two things combine to open a
lot of eyes
and so what parents saw was wow my
school board does not represent my
values at all and isn't fighting for my
kids at all isn't trying to get my
schools open isn't trying to get the
masks off the kids while 80 year olds
were you know living freely
um the curriculum's ridiculous they saw
it over their kids shoulder while the
kids were studying from home they
suddenly realized that math is racist
and
um reading isn't taught correctly at all
and so much is filled in with this woke
nonsense a lot of critical race theory
gender Theory at a very young age
so there has been a parental Revolution
across the U.S where more moderate or
right-of-centered parents have been
running for school board but again the
left has like a 20-year head start on
this it's not going to be an overnight
thing and it'd be great if Republican
politicians instead of talking about the
presidential election would talk about
run for your school board push people to
do it say this is how we fight back this
is how we win the culture and if you
don't step up and do it the left will
and so many leftists who run for school
boards don't even have kids they're just
there to influence the culture and the
right doesn't seem to have the same verb
to do the same now you're you're you
have a extensive background as a
journalist you've worked for the New
York Post for Fox and so forth and yet
you wrote this book
um
what was your pathway into this issue
and why did it start to well obsess you
sufficiently so that you know you wrote
a book which is non-trivial
takes a non-trivial devotion and and
to manage on the time and resource front
what what pulled you into this it really
was the covet era we were living in
Brooklyn we were lifelong New Yorkers my
husband and I both grew up in New York
we were going to raise our children in
New York we had just finished our Dream
Home moved in March 2020
and what I saw around me
shook me so hard that I needed to talk
about it and so I would talk about it
all the time I would say before 2020 I
wrote about all kinds of things I wrote
about sex I wrote about marriage I wrote
about immigration but 2020 hits and I
see kids as being uniquely targeted so
my co-author Bethany Mandel and I would
talk a lot about what was going on with
children in the country I have three
kids they were all in public school in
New York City she had six she had six
kids now uh all homeschooled so very
different paths she and I take
um but what I saw happening in New York
and across the country where kids were
so disregarded the covet pandemic really
just exposed how kids are put last in
New York for example when the reopening
plans were announced by Governor Cuomo
kids were like it was like concerts
Broadway shows schools it was like the
last thing that he thought of like oh
right kids need to go back to schools
and things like I lived in a super left
neighborhood
um and my neighbors all marched for
equity and they all put the BLM signs
and the defund police signs in their
window
um and then when schools didn't open
they sent their kids to private schools
which obviously weren't open because
that's safe or they formed pods for
their own kids or they moved to their
beach house and sent their kids to
school there and they didn't say a word
for any of the kids around the city who
didn't have the same opportunities as
their children I grew up poor in
Brooklyn I was an immigrant
um I lived in an immigrant Enclave where
things were tough and so the people that
I grew up with were not enjoying the
pandemic and baking banana bread and
ordering ubereats they were struggling
and I saw that nobody cared about them
and particularly nobody cared about
their children so we have a covid
chapter in the book which I don't you
know I admit it doesn't exactly fit
because a lot of the book is about
fighting and moving forward and and what
you need to do to get your kids out of
this crazy system but the Kobe chapter
was so important because I think that
that's where a lot of the eye opening
began for me and for so many other
parents where I realized that something
really bad was happening to the children
maybe it'd been happening for a while
but that was the moment where I realized
we had to do something
yeah well one of the things that struck
me
I live in a pretty leftist neighborhood
too in Toronto in fact I think I'm
probably more unpopular in my own
neighborhood than I am anywhere else in
the world which is rather annoying uh
consequence of everything that's
transpired around me in the last six
years but one of the things I was quite
struck by in Toronto in particular was
the
two things one was the willingness of
the left to sacrifice the poor to their
purity concerns that was really quite
interesting and also to align themselves
with the pharmaceutical companies
because that was kind of a miraculous
reversal that was virtually
incomprehensible I mean for decades the
only enemy the left had that was as
significant let's say as big energy
companies was big Pharma and for the
left to align themselves with the
pharmaceutical company struck me as a uh
what would you say uh philosophical uh
reversal of miraculous proportions I
still haven't wrapped my head around
that entirely and I was also shocked and
I would really say shocked by the
absolute pleasure that people seem to
take in the
side effect of the covid lockdowns which
was the opportunity to spy and inform on
your neighbors and my sense was that in
Toronto first of all 70 percent of
people would have worn those goddamn
masks happily for the rest of their
lives and half of that group would have
done it happily merely because it gave
them an opportunity to spy on and inform
on their neighbors and you know I knew
that in places like East Germany under
the Soviets that one-third of citizens
were government informers which is a
pretty damn dismal statistic
but I and I knew that that proclivity
was embedded deep in the heart of the
human soul let's say if a soul can have
a heart you get my point but it was
still a shock to me to see how rapidly
that
desire made itself manifest when the
when the social and political conditions
made it made it possible and morally
necessary
and so yeah I was and it was also very
interesting
go please go ahead no I was gonna say I
think I was naive I did not think that
Americans or Canadians or free people in
general had that inside them I knew that
people who had been under totalitarian
rule who didn't know anything else yes
they could be made to inform on their
neighbors but free people who didn't
have anything to lose were telling on
people for having too many friends in
their backyard and that was happening
frequently in my neighborhood another
interesting uh moment was so I lived in
this neighborhood park slope in Brooklyn
and there was like a board on Facebook
and
um a woman wrote in and she said I'm
Asian I was bicycling without my mask
and an older white couple yelled racial
epithets at me this is at the height of
the pandemic you know spring 2020 and in
normal times obviously everybody would
be supportive of her and oh how dare
this white couple say racist things to
you but the majority of the comments
were like well you should have been
wearing your mask and that's where they
got to where they threw away their own
previous ideas in order for this new
math god
um and it was really wild to watch that
I I don't I didn't expect that look I'm
a lifelong conservative my husband is a
conservative and we were going to live
in this liberal area and that would have
been fine until the pandemic hit and we
saw what was really going on we couldn't
unsee it so Carol you were locked down
in
in New York
with your Progressive neighbors and you
started to become aware that children
were being placed pretty damn low on the
hierarchy of importance I mean we
certainly saw that in two ways right we
saw that with the 100 percent insane
insistence that children should wear
masks which was
appalling given the absolute positive
evidence the children who were at any
risk whatsoever for mortality in
relationship to covet and the notion
that the children were presenting a
danger therefore to the teachers I mean
the first thing I would say is well
there's an occupational hazard for you
and you can walk along with it the same
way the bloody nurses do and the doctors
but but but having said that I would
also say that the evidence that teachers
were at particular risk because of the
you know the the uh the Infectious
nature of the children was also lacking
but it didn't make any difference we put
the damn masks on the kids and and
wreaked havoc on their
psycholinguistic and emotional
development for two years and then we
locked them at home where they didn't
learn a goddamn thing and and and the
poor kids in particular are going to pay
for that perhaps for the rest of their
life and we're going to pay a walloping
economic price as well
because we failed to educate a very
large number of people and so they won't
be as productive as they might have
otherwise been so that's quite the
bloody catastrophe but then
we also you also dug further into that
and realized that children's interests
weren't being served on a broader front
and that's how you moved more into the
into the let's say the what the gender
dispute the culture War domain that
started to occupy your attention before
that how concerned had you been
with the broader issues of the culture
War somewhat concerned but nowhere near
what ended up happening so I would say
that I should have begun spoken speaking
up earlier
um when my middle son was in first grade
he switched schools after the school
year had begun and his new school had a
climate March in their Courtyard and I
didn't want him to be the weird kid who
just got to the school and didn't
participate and sat it out so I let him
March around when he was seven years old
with his Earth dies we die sign and
obviously in retrospect I would never
allow that ever again but that's the
kind of thing that I think parents don't
even really see until it's too late that
they're using your children as little
activists and this is happening so much
in Brooklyn kids marched obviously
against climate change they marched for
gun control they marched vaguely against
hate after the 2016 election and so they
have this idea that they could turn the
kids into child soldiers and then their
ideas will be unassailable how are you
going to argue about climate change with
a first grader you're not and how are
you going to argue about gun control
with a teenager I think a lot of
politicians tried to do that after the
stormman Douglas shooting in Florida a
few years ago and they ended up looking
ridiculous on TV because you can't argue
with kids it just doesn't work out that
way and so that's why the left is using
them Greta unberg it's not an accident
it actually well there's there's another
there's another reason too I think which
is even more perverse if possible I mean
it's pretty damn perverse to turn
children into activists and it's but
it's more perverse to do this and this
is what's been happening particularly
with young men and I've seen thousands
of examples of this and in fact I had a
friend who eventually committed suicide
he was an early victim of exactly this
sort of thinking I would say he
committed suicide about it's got to be
15 years ago after live in a pretty damn
dismal life and he was racked with
existential guilt as a consequence of
his intolerable masculinity and so that
didn't work out very well for him as a
let's call it a life plan and so here's
what I see happening in the schools with
young men in particular and I think it's
worth concentrating on them because boys
are not doing well in school
uh teenage boys are not doing well in
Junior High
um men are not going to University and
if they do they don't graduate an
increasing number of men aren't picking
up let's say gainful employment or
mature relationships when they had
adulthood and more and more men are
bailing entirely out of the entire uh
bailing out of the entire sexual Dynamic
process as well not only not having
relationships with women but not having
sex at all not even with themselves and
that's becoming more and more widespread
it's it's part of the broad scale
demoralization of man and boys and so
how does that start well it starts in
school and the reason it starts in
school is because the more boisterous
boys so more extroverted and unless
agreeable so are actually more hard to
discipline and control they don't want
to sit still for six hours a day and
shut up and not say anything they want
to run around and play and they want to
do it competitively and that is like
verboten in school if you're the sort of
boy who wants that you're nothing but
trouble and so right at the beginning
the boys are taught that they're
deepest intrinsic desire for let's say
active exploration and engagement
certain degree of competitive dominance
that's like that's bad that's morally
bad and so that's brutal especially when
it's medicated out of them which is
exactly what happens on the attention
deficit disorder front let's say
um because a ritalin suppresses play
that's what it does pharmacologically it
doesn't calm kids down that's complete
bloody rubbish and it certainly doesn't
calm a hyperactive kids down
differentially none of that's the least
bit true but those medications are
widely used and so boys are demoralized
right at the beginning in school because
their natural proclivity for boisterous
activity is deemed inappropriate and
then there's explicit training that
happens next and the explicit training
is the bloody leftist claim that you
know history is to be read is nothing
but a patriarchal nightmare the
inference being that all of the
competitive stress driving that
characterizes masculinity is nothing but
the force that manifests itself as
Patriot patriarchal domination and
tyranny and so any boy that has any
degree of compassion let's say and who
might feel guilty for his toxic
masculinity is going to be demoralized
by the suggestion that his ambition is
nothing but
the manifestation of implicit tyrannical
force and if he escapes that well then
the leftists are there to mop up
whatever you know bit of Courage might
be left by accusing him of being part of
the force that's eternally raping the
planet
and so you you see and I've seen
thousands of cases of this it's been
devastating to me to see how widespread
this is the degree of demoralization
that characterizes young men is is it's
almost incomprehensible it's
incomprehensibly deep and it's hurting
people in a very deep way and it's not
just hurting boys and men obviously
because if women are then faced with an
entire cohort of demoralized men it's
like well what the hell are they going
to do for a partner you know there's
lots of universities now where it's two
to one women to men well that's no damn
good for the women how are they going to
find a partner right and the idea you
know women say there are no good men
well yeah this is what happened they
they destroyed boys they destroyed men
and then obviously women are unable to
find somebody because the pool has
gotten like this I have a daughter and
two sons I absolutely think that there's
a difference between the two Sexes
they're born different they're it's not
not just something that they grow into
they're day one they were different and
the idea that they're the same and that
we should treat them the same and that
we should give preference to girls I
think that that's a real problem
um I I don't know that we've gotten to a
point where
um we can treat them equally I that
would be you know obviously the the goal
but you know in the meantime I think we
need to do more for boys I think we're
we're really raising a Lost Generation
of boys and it's scary to me that it's
so easily dismissed because oh who cares
about boys
um they've done well enough in history
that we don't need to worry about this
group of boys now
um I definitely worry about my sons more
than I worry about my dog there's also
there's lurking there's a lurking danger
there too so
um
the the rising attractiveness of figures
like Andrew Tate
speaks to the danger of demoralizing
young men
because if you demoralize young men you
make
what would you say charismatic bad men
become much more attractive
because they're The Men Who say well to
hell with all of this idiot constraint
and pathetic morality I'm just going to
go and do whatever the hell I want which
is a kind of a narcissistic route to
self aggrandizement and attainment right
but if the alternative to that is to lay
you know
half comatose in your basement being
depressed about the impending apocalypse
a little bit of attractive criminality
beckons us quite the uh compelling
alternative and that can easily be make
itself manifest on the political front
you know if you raise a generation of
demoralized men and then you wave a
leader in front of them who says
um
some forthright
self-aggrandizing semi semi-criminal
Behavior would be in your best interest
the probability that they're going to
find that attractive that kind of
well you that's that's a good route to a
kind of fascist populism let's say
the probability that people are going to
find that attractive is extremely high I
mean I think that part of the reason
that Trump was attractive and I am not
going to you know grind away negatively
and simple-mindedly on Trump because
he's a complicated character but part of
the reason that Trump was attractive was
because he had that you know
up yours attitude that giant middle
finger attitude towards the woke mob
that was a hell of a lot more attractive
than the half-baked cowardly cow Towing
that the typical conservatives do when
faced with a woke Onslaught and you know
Trump at least had the gall to tell
people to go to hell when it was
necessary and maybe he did that more
often than he should have I mean he's
not the world's
he's definitely a bull in a china shop
but you know maybe it's better to have a
bloody bull in the china shop than a
castrated gelding you've covered Trump
you know and you have your ambivalent
um what would you say feelings about him
I mean how do you read Trump's
popularity in light of the culture wars
that we've been describing and what do
you think is going to happen on the
Republican front you know you've been
involved with the DeSantis Enterprise
and DeSantis looks like the prime
Challenger to Trump but at the moment
Trump seems to be trumping him in terms
of overall popularity and I think the
bloody Democrats are pretty happy about
that so how do you see this playing out
you're right that he uh has stood up to
the woke mob Etc and he's been himself
the whole time I think a lot of what his
campaign is doing now though I wrote
about it recently where I really don't
like that he's trashing Florida's
policies I understand that uh political
campaigns get very dirty I expect if Ron
DeSantis gets into the race that the
primary is going to be a really dirty
one but attacking conservative policies
that are actually working in the model
Republican state really makes no sense
to me and I hope that his campaign takes
what I wrote to heart and doesn't just
dismiss it
um because whoever ends up the candidate
I want to see them be strong and be able
to defend ideas and not just be a cult
of personality I'm obviously a big fan
of Governor DeSantis I moved to Florida
in large part because of his policies
but obviously I could the move you know
I moved my whole family it's not just
because of a politician we saw a sanity
in Florida that had been missing and I
had never really experienced in New York
so it definitely was governor DeSantis
leading the way I think a lot of what
he's doing and especially on things like
well my sons are in a public school in
Florida and I don't worry about them
learning gender ideology in school I
don't worry about them learning critical
race theory in school I just worry a lot
less I mean I'm still worried about
things like reading but I just have a
lot less to be concerned with in Florida
um and the idea of the Trump
campaign attack so now you're now you're
worried about what he's not being now
you're worried about what he's not being
taught instead of what he is well I
would say that I have found Florida
school to be uh incredible like yeah I
feel like a lot of what I talk about
when I talk about Florida it sounds like
I drank the Kool-Aid and I have because
it's really a magnificent place it's
such a great place to raise a family
um I didn't know what I was missing for
so long and you know we have a lot of uh
discussion with some of our mutual
friends about getting Jordan Peterson to
make the move someday
um I think you'd really enjoy it but uh
it's a great well we have an Enterprise
we have an Enterprise we have an
Enterprise in Miami and my daughter
spent some time there and so I've
enjoyed being in Florida let's talk
about that personally for a minute now
you're you were a died in the Wool New
Yorker and you lived in a liberal
neighborhood and I mean New York has its
attractions it's an incredibly exciting
it's an incredibly exciting City and so
and it tends to evoke a substantial
amount of what patriotic identification
among its inhabitants you know there's
no place in the world like New York and
that's particularly what New Yorkers
think and they have some reason for that
but you moved to Florida which was a
major move and uh you said that you've
experienced being in Florida as a relief
and so like exactly why is that you're
not worried you said you're not worried
about your kids in school now but
what else did you see that changed for
you when you got out of that liberal
Hothouse atmosphere of New York and how
and how do you think that was affecting
you now when you look at it in
retrospect I was a New York supremacist
I thought New York was not just the best
but the only place to live I couldn't
even imagine a life outside of it
um and getting to Florida and every time
I fly back to Florida and Landing at in
Florida I just feel this sense of
Freedom that I've never felt before
freedom to say what you want
um to raise your kids how you want to
um say things that people know to be
true but have to pretend that they're
not true in New York
um I I don't I don't have to do that in
Florida we don't have to pretend we
everybody that I've met even people who
are politically on the left can be
themselves and don't have to worry about
their neighbors
um coming for them which actually was
happening in New York City and I I think
that the New York of my childhood and
the New York of my dreams really got
crushed during covid um we had been
through so many tough times before the
post-9 11 period
um the blackout of 2003 various
hurricanes in New York that did a lot of
damage
um but we always came out of it stronger
and this was the first time that I
really felt like New York came out of it
weaker and they
um just the pandemic exposed that the
New Yorkers that I had always loved the
independent strong unique New Yorkers
were going to be sheep going forward and
that they felt the pressure to conform
and they became this conformist blob
that I could no longer
you know defend and appreciate
um Florida is just it's a beacon of
freedom and it's been for the last three
years I think it's really become
something unique where if you want to be
free if you want to be bold if you want
to say what you want to say Florida is
the place to do it yeah well you know
there's an interesting parallel between
your parents leaving the Soviet Union
and you leaving New York and I don't
want to make a lot of that but here's
the parallel you know and and uh I spent
quite a lot of time working with
Democrats over the last decade and one
of the things that I found very
difficult was that I was trying to help
the people that I was Consulting with
let's say pull the party to the center
away from the grip of the woke radicals
and I did I wouldn't say I had a lot of
success on that front I had some success
For Better or For Worse but I got very
tired of having to watch every bloody
thing I said you know because I would
rather be around people where I can just
say what I think and sometimes that's a
joke and sometimes it's harsh and
sometimes it's real harsh and but I can
do it and they can do it and that's just
fine and this sense of walking on eggs
constantly gets extraordinarily wearing
but there's something deep and horrible
about that because
you know people think that when you're
in a totalitarian state the reason that
the state is totalitarian because
everyone is the victim of top-down
pressure from tyrants
and that's completely that's not how it
works at all
a state becomes totalitarian when every
single person is lying about absolutely
everything all the time and you said
that you started to experience that in
New York because you had to pretend all
the time you had to watch your language
you had to couch what you say and you
did because you were afraid of how other
people would react and that is the
totalitarian ethos and when that's
distributed across the population in
general you still have tyrants who are
in control but they're just mouth pieces
of that more generalized lie and you
know I've traveled a lot in the last
three or four years and I've been in
places that were very woke especially on
the lockdown front and I would say
Toronto was first and foremost among
them worse than New York worse than San
Francisco worse than La worse than
Washington
a sense of real oppression descended on
me arriving say back in Toronto airports
and a sense of real Freedom emerged
going to places like well Tennessee
Texas Florida where I could say what the
hell I wanted and everyone wasn't half
insane with mask friends and frenzy and
the associated coveted authoritarianism
you know and I'm more and more convinced
that there was no damn pandemic at all
I'm convinced on that front not least in
part because there's not a lot of data
showing excess mortality in Sweden for
example during the pandemic years what
we had instead
and conservatives should probably stop
talking about the pandemic as such what
we had was an outbreak of two years of
totalitarian governance and that was the
bloody pandemic
it was a lot worse than the virus by any
stretch of the imagination and there
were some places that managed to stay
relatively free of that you know
Tennessee is a good example and but so
is Florida you can go there and there is
a sense of lightness
that's
I think it's palpable on landing and
maybe it's because the airports aren't
quite as authoritarian as they are in
the more you know in the more lockdown
oriented States and provinces it's true
I remember Landing in New York on you
know various trips during that time and
there would be National Guard there you
know asking you where you're going
um the idea that that would be happening
in America is wild and you're right it
is so I mean look I don't want to
Discount I I when I say it's similar to
my parents leaving the Soviet Union it's
similar because I'm moving towards
Freedom just like they were and maybe we
didn't come from the same terrible
totalitarian system but we both felt
the social pressure to conform and I
didn't want to conform anymore I wanted
to be free I cannot tell you how many
well-known famous people were in my
direct messages during that time saying
I agree with you but I can't say
anything how many news people in the
media who are like yeah I think schools
should be open but I'm afraid to say
anything well like in the beginning I
felt sorry for them and I was like I
would respond like I get it you know I
understand you can't speak out but after
a while I came to really hate them and
think like you can't speak out about
really basic things that you know are
affecting your children and other
children and you can't speak out because
what you're going to get a nasty comment
on Facebook it's just I I came to lose
so much respect for people who were
conforming even when they didn't have to
yeah well I felt the same thing with
regard to the professoriate and the
influx of the woke administrators yeah
it's like look you guys
you have tenure you are the most
protected people in the world right be
brave you have this privileged position
well it's it's your uphold your bloody
ethical responsibility the price you pay
for your tenured privilege is the
requirement that you speak your mind
at whatever risk that poses to you now
the culture has done everything it
possibly could to ameliorate that risk
for you
everything it can and you yet you don't
have enough courage to oppose you know
the HR person who's pushing forward a
diversity inclusivity and Equity
proposal it's like well we we can't say
anything about that we have to go along
with what the administration wants you
know what happened in the universities
it's so interesting to watch and I
watched this over a 30-year period the
first thing that happened was the
administration took over the
universities and
that's well documented all you have to
do is look at the statistics that show
how much the administration increased in
terms of uh sheer numbers compared to
how much the proficerian or the student
body increased and you see a massive
increase in administrators and no a
slight increase in students and almost
no increase whatsoever in faculty and
the reason that happened was because the
administrators pushed and they could see
a good thing when they had one and they
figured out how to pick the future
pockets of their students in a
parasitical manner but and so that's on
the administrators but
The Faculty allowed it to happen just
like the bloody Republicans have allowed
the woke mob to take over the education
system exactly the same thing so it's on
the faculty as far as I'm concerned
cowards cowards thousand micro Retreats
or ten thousand micro Retreats but then
what happened and this was so bloody
interesting is that once the
administrators had taken over the
university
the woke mob used the same tactics to
take over the administration and it
probably took 30 years for the
administrators to take over the
university it took like four years for
the woke mob to take over the
administration
and that's where we are now and that's
for me that's a hundred percent on the
faculty because it was their job to
to not allow this to happen
and so and these people that you're
talking about I can understand why
people are afraid of being singled out
and mopped you know but if you're a
journalist or an academic or a
politician you know you're someone on
the front lines of the culture War it's
your bloody ethical responsibility to
put yourself at some risk to say what
you believe to be the truth and so you
know I might get mobbed well that's a
reason but it's not an excuse yeah I
just I my thinking on them was what is
the point of you what is the point of
you doing this job what is the point of
any of this if you're not able to speak
really basic truths and it's going to
get harder it's like it wasn't that hard
to say schools should be open I think it
gets a lot harder when they're they have
to say look there are actually only two
Sexes there are only two genders and
there is no such thing as gender
non-binary
um all of this becomes really difficult
to to say when you've already laid the
foundation where you don't say anything
controversial at all
um um I I it's just the lack of Bravery
it was scary to me it was scary to me
not only among like famous journalists
Etc but among parents the fact that they
weren't fighting for their own kids and
they were expecting somebody else to do
it I I think is a really bad path to go
down and if you're expecting the culture
or the school or somebody else to teach
your kids values
um you're gonna find that they're going
to learn values that are not aligned
with yours and that's what what happens
all the time well it's so interesting eh
to think you know you were talking about
the fact now that it's risky to make the
case for uh a sexual binary it's like
it's so interesting eh because people
backtracked
as a consequence of the onslaught of the
reputation savaging woke mob and they
made little compromises along the way so
to speak little compromises of which
weren't little at all but appeared that
way and within a period of a very short
number of years
it's probably the last six years we've
gone to we've got to the point where
stating the most what you could argue is
the most self-evident fact
is enough to put your reputation on the
line like I think cognitively speaking
it isn't obvious to me at all that there
is a distinction that is more real
than the distinction between male and
female because
organisms that can't make that
distinction don't propagate right it's
and sex is extremely old it's hundreds
of millions of years old it's older than
nervous systems by a large margin it's
way older than trees
I think it's probably older than the
distinction between up and down
I don't think there is any piece of
differentiated perception
that's more fundamental to the Integrity
of our psyches and to the Integrity of
our social systems than agreement on the
distinction between male and female
and the fact that we've gone from
cowardly you know what would you say
cowardly adherence to the woke mob
routine to the point where we can't even
claim that there's a difference between
men and women just shows you exactly how
dangerous the totalitarian slippery
slope
precisely is
so I mean Matt Walsh is getting
pilloried like mad didn't they just
throw him off YouTube because he dares
to do such a thing as stand up to Dylan
Mulvaney who's like the most
Preposterous human being that's ever
existed narcissistic right to the bloody
core as is obvious to anyone who has the
eyes to see
playing this idiot game uh that's
dementing the culture for not for no
other purpose than his own
self-aggrandizement and the consequences
someone who points out the completely
obvious well God it's I mean when I
first saw Dylan Mulvaney I actually
thought he was pretty damn funny his
little routines running through the
forest where he's pretending to be
female that's high comedy man unless
you're taking it seriously in which case
it's just an absolutely dismal parody
and I can never make up my mind with
Mulvaney whether or not he's a comedic
Troll and who's just playing this for
the laughs or whether he's tied up in
his own pathology and and believes it's
a serious Endeavor I think it's half and
half and I think that contradiction will
eventually tear him apart
because there's no way someone can
sustain that sort of thing over any
reasonable amount of time but the notion
that he's some kind of cultural hero
that he was welcome to the White House
that Kamala Harris sent him a note of
commendation it's like he just can't
make and that Matt Walsh is being
canceled for objecting to this
absolutely absurd narcissistic parody
you can't make this up and it's so
interesting to see that that silence you
know that all the right thinkers who are
afraid of being mobbed uh Allied
themselves with has led us to a place
where you were confusing children
regularly about whether or not they're
boys or girls and that's moral you know
God it's something to behold man yeah I
was gonna say the cancellation Factor it
is affecting not just you know moderate
or left culture we had a hard time
getting this book published daily wire
took a chance on us we are two fairly
well-known writers in the conservative
space of you know fairly large
followings Publishers were very
interested in our books we had meetings
with all the conservative Publishers
they openly said to us we want this but
hey can you turn tone down the fighting
a little bit and then other Publishers
said to us the transgender chapter we're
afraid Amazon's not going to sell this
we you know it was during the time when
Abigail schreier's book was in danger of
being pulled down off Amazon Ryan
Anderson's book had been pulled down
they were afraid so when daily wire
offered us this deal it really was
taking a chance and they knew that they
were taking a chance on us and that's
that should be scary to everybody where
do we live that even the conservative
Publishers are afraid to publish books
yeah yeah absolutely absolutely so now
your book is available on Amazon
it is yes for now in case
okay so that's good so so we can be
happy about that and so if people want
to pick up your book is that the best
place to do it where else can they find
it are all the bookstores are so far
Distributing it all the bookstores yeah
on daily wire books uh selling it Amazon
it's the best seller well
congratulations on that front so it
shows well so that's Optimist okay
because you did write this book you did
get it published it isn't being canceled
and you know I think there has been a
shift in the tide in recent in recent
months especially after the closing of
the Tavistock clinic in the UK which was
a major blow to the to the uh to the to
the woke gender transition mob and that
hasn't
fully unfolded yet on the culture front
but will over the next few years you
know I suspect that you know I think in
10 years you won't be able to find a
person who will admit to having ever
supported the idea that children should
be medically transitioned that'll be as
taboo as lobotomies you know it'll be as
taboo as well
nobody everybody now says they didn't
support lockdowns right and there was
nobody who supported lockdowns yeah
Justin Trudeau didn't push anybody to
get vaccinated right right exactly
exactly we're going to see a Spate of
historical revisionism the likes of
which we've never seen you know so with
any luck yearbook along with schreier's
book there's a number of them that have
come out recently that have been
decimating the arguments made on the uh
gender transition front especially for
minors there's not a bloody shred of
evidence that that so-called gender
affirming care does one iota of good and
it's Preposterous to assume that it does
but there's certainly no evidence that
it does and so it's very nice to see
that
there is some well-documented
journalistic work like shires for
example and years that is making a
strong case for the
elimination of this particular brand of
unforgivable and malevolent stupidity
virtue signaling stupidity fact that
we're willing to sacrifice children in
the name of this perverse woke
propaganda is I think it's beyond
criminal you know and it's funny because
the telegraph really supported me you
know I wrote One vicious article about
childhood
surgery the most vicious article I could
produce I was actually afraid of it you
know calling the counselors who enabled
this and the surgeons liars and the
surgeons who perform the
processes butchers which I think they
are and calling outright for their
imprisonment and criminal prosecution
which is exactly what I think should
happen and the telegraph published both
of those articles which was extremely
Brave of them and it was so weird to
launch them into the public sphere
because 99 of the comments were positive
so it's not like people think this is a
good idea but a very loud minority of
very nasty creatures think it's a good
idea and they're perfectly willing to do
everything they can to ruin your life if
you dare to uh to object
um their their teeth are being pulled
though
they're a very loud minority they
Implement what they want through force
and they try to force Conformity and
that's how they get it done
um but yeah they're a tiny minority uh
they're gonna grow right now I would say
seven percent of the US refers to
themselves as very liberal and I bet
that number for walk is even lower
um but it they they certainly will grow
if we let them yeah yeah well you know
what that really highlights I would say
and maybe we can close with this before
we move over to the Daily wire plus side
of things
you know it's if you look at the course
of revolutions throughout human history
especially the more pathological
revolutions like the Russian Revolution
it was a tiny minority of people who
fomented the revolution it doesn't take
that many people this is the thing that
everyone has to realize you might think
well it's a tiny minority of people who
are pushing this it's like yeah well
it's always a tiny minority of people
that upset the apple cart and the thing
is they can especially when they get
organized I mean Andy Knoll told me
Andy's studied antifa probably more than
anyone else in the world and uh I had a
bunch of Democrats at one point tell me
that antifa didn't exist and these were
smart people and I thought what the hell
do you mean and they said well you know
they have no formal organization there's
no hierarchy they're not a charitable
institution no they don't they're not a
they're not a recognized organization
and I thought well fair enough that's a
point and so I asked Andy about antifa
and he's I asked him how many cells he
thought there were and he thought about
something approximating 40
and I said well how many full-time
employee equivalents do these cells have
and he figured 20 per cell and that's
800 people and there's 320 320 million
people in the U.S so that's one person
in 400 000. and so that's kind of
statistically indistinguishable from
zero people right in the city of a
million you'd have two people
but the terrifying aspect of that is
that's actually enough
like 800 well-organized people
especially given electronic resources
they can wreak a lawful Lord of havoc
and so
minority or not we're still in the
position of how can this be regulated so
that you know they don't bring the whole
bloody thing crashing to a halt which is
certainly
certainly their aim
so all right well I would recommend to
everyone who's listening that you check
out
you check out Carol's book stolen youth
apparently you can get it where books
are sold online and otherwise and so
that's good if you haven't been canceled
and in fact your book is a bestseller so
you know kudos to daily wire and also to
you
um how have there been any critical
reviews
um there have uh there have been
um I think in slate or Salon one of
those uh where they call us names like
you know gender folds or I don't know I
don't even know what they're saying at
this point
um but nothing that oh it was at a Daily
Beast yeah it didn't make any sense oh
yeah well that yeah well that Daily
Beast specializes in things that don't
make sense so but any any thoughtful
critical reviews
no I you know I would love to do
adversarial interviews about the book
um but we you know I haven't been
offered any and I would love to argue
with somebody about the concepts that we
talk about in the book I would love for
CNN MSNBC to invite me on and have a a
recent debate even if it's a you know
the the five-minute cable news clip
where they mostly yell at me let's do it
like let's get the conversation going
but they'll never do it because you're
not allowed to have been have you
reached out to
you know people well of course not of
course not evil people like you that's
right yeah have you reached out to Anna
kasparian and the and the Young Turks
maybe they would have you on you know
Anna seems to have yeah she's going
through everything the bloody walk left
thinks isn't she sure is and and so is I
don't remember how to say his name uh
ugir how do you say
yeah [__] yeah yeah well both of them
both of them seem to be well it's so
interesting watching them because
they're claiming that you know the woke
mob is just a tiny proportion of
progressives you know it's like yeah
like Kamala Harris for example who
pushes Equity non-stop so they're hand
waving about how this is just a
right-wing fantasy this Progressive
nightmare but it is interesting to see
both of them you know take stock again
and realize that indeed the left can and
has gone too far so yeah fun to see you
on The Young Turks but you know that
probability that strikes me as pretty
much zero anyways everyone who's
watching and listening you can pick up
this book stolen Youth and you know
especially if you're a parent or maybe
an interested teenager it might be a
book you want to pick up and thanks
Carol very much for agreeing to talk to
me today and good luck with the
promotion of your book and your further
work and uh thank you to the Daily Word
Plus for making this conversation
possible facilitating this studio here
in Portugal I'm in Porto Portugal today
which is beautiful old town and uh to
everybody watching and listening
um thank you for your time and attention
and also I'm going to talk to Carol for
another half an hour on the daily wire
plus platform we'll do more
autobiographical interview uh talking
about the matter in which her career
path made itself obvious and accessible
to her and so if you're interested in
that please
consider
subscribing to the Daily wire plus they
could use your support anyways because
they're one of the few organizations
brave enough for example to
publicize Matt Walsh's documentary what
is a woman and to publish your book and
so you know that kind of Courage
arguably could use some support if we
want to
facilitate and reward its existence
anyways Carol thanks a lot for talking
to me today
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com